
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to support the nomination of Condoleezza Rice as Secretary of State. Dr. Rice has served the President with distinction over the past 4 years as National Security Adviser, and I have complete confidence she will bring the same talents, energy, and vision we have witnessed thus far to her new job at the State Department's helm. 
    In many of her recent remarks and those of President Bush, Dr. Rice has emphasized the promotion of freedom and democracy as a hallmark of American foreign policy. 
    Not only has Dr. Rice made democracy a centerpiece of her time at the White House, but also her life itself illustrates the final triumph of true democracy at home. 
    Dr. Rice grew up in Birmingham, AL, in the heart of the segregated South. She has spoken movingly about her memory of the 1963 church bombing in her hometown. One of the innocent little girls who died there was a friend of hers. 
    Dr. Rice grew up in a time and place where America's founding ideals had not yet become reality for all of our citizens. The United States, a country built on the idea of freedom, was not yet a full democracy. 
    Perhaps it was this experience that led Dr. Rice to make the study and practice of political systems her life's work. After receiving her Ph.D. at the University of Denver, she joined Stanford University and quickly became identified as one of the world's leading scholars of the Soviet Union. We all know of her distinguished career since then. 
    Dr. Rice has the confidence of the President of the United States. Dr. Rice has the confidence of the majority of this Senate. We know, as many of her critics have admitted on this floor, she will be easily confirmed. 
    So I wonder why we are starting this new Congress with a protracted debate about a foregone conclusion. It cannot be for a lack of priorities because we surely have enough on our legislative plate this year. It can't be because Dr. Rice has suggested she has some flaw so fundamental that the Senate must block the President's choice. I can only conclude we are doing this for no other reason than because of lingering bitterness at the outcome of the elections. 
    We need to move on. The people of the United States made their choice last November and they expect their elected officials to govern accordingly. 
    When President Clinton was reelected for his second term, I didn't share the policy views of some of the officials he nominated, but I do not recall going through protracted battles such as this. We all have varying policy views, but the President, in my view, has a clear right to put into place the team he believes will serve him best. 
    I believe this Nation is honored by the presence of Dr. Rice, by what she represents, by what she has achieved, and I believe she will be an enduring role model to all Americans, particularly Americans who are not of the majority in race in our country. 
    I believe Dr. Rice is a living example of what can happen in America. From a beginning in a segregated South to the Secretary of State of the most powerful nation in the world is a great American success story. I hope all my colleagues, at the completion of this overwhelming vote in favor of her confirmation, will celebrate this great American success story and all of us will look forward to her leadership of the Department of State, and working with her here in the Halls of Congress. 
    I yield the remainder of my time. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
 
