
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with Senator KYL in introducing the Northern Arizona Forest Lands Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2005. The Senate passed by unanimous consent a nearly identical measure late last year. Unfortunately, the House did not have the time to pass the bill before the 108th Congress adjourned. It is my hope that this compromise bill will pass quickly in both Houses and become law in the near future. 
    This legislation is the product of many years of negotiation and compromise. It provides a sound framework for a fair and equal value exchange of 50,000 acres of private and public land in Northern Arizona. The bill also addresses water issues associated with the exchange of lands located within the Verde River Basin watershed by limiting water usage on certain exchanged lands and supporting the development of a collaborative science-based water resource planning and management entity for the Verde River Basin watershed. 
    After countless hours of deliberation and discussion by all parties, I believe that the compromise reached on the bill is both balanced and foresighted in addressing the various issues raised by the exchange. I want to thank Senator KYL and his staff, as well as Senators DOMENICI and BINGAMAN, and their staffs on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, for their tireless efforts in reaching this agreement at the end of the last session. I also want to recognize the work of Congressmen RENZI and HAYWORTH who have championed this legislation in the House of Representatives. Representative RENZI plans to introduce a companion bill in the House this week. 
    The Arizona delegation is strongly supportive of the legislation because it will offer significant benefits for all parties. Benefits will accrue to the U.S. Forest Service and the public with the consolidation of checkerboard lands and the protection and enhanced management of extensive forest and grasslands. The communities of Flagstaff, Williams, and Camp Verde will also benefit in terms of economic development opportunities, water supply, and other important purposes. 
    While facilitating the exchange of public and private lands is a very important objective of this legislation, and indeed, was the original purpose when we began working on it several years ago, I now consider the provisions concerning water management even more crucial. Since introducing the original legislation in April 2003, I have heard from hundreds of Arizonans and learned first-hand of the significant water issues raised by the transfer of Federal land into private ownership. We have modified the bill to take into account many of the concerns raised during meetings held in Northern Arizona by limiting water usage on exchanged lands and removing certain lands entirely from the exchange. 
    There is growing recognition throughout Arizona of the need to face the crucial challenge of wise management of limited water supplies, particularly with the extended drought coupled with rapid population growth. Earlier this month, I had the opportunity to participate in an Arizona Water Conservation Forum which was attended by educators, business leaders, and State and local officials. I think the majority of us came away more aware of the management measures needed to provide for a more secure water future. 
    This bill promotes an important opportunity to encourage sound water management in Northern Arizona by supporting the creation of a collaborative, science-based decision-making body to advance essential planning and management at the State and local level. To be successful, this effort will require the involvement of all the stakeholders with water supply responsibilities and interests and a solid foundation of knowledge about available resources and existing demands. We are fortunate to have an existing model of collaborative science-based water resource planning and management with the Upper San Pedro Partnership in  the Sierra Vista subwatershed of Arizona. In my view, the establishment of a similar, cooperative body in the Verde Basin will be a vital step in assuring the wise use of our limited water resources. 
 
